	張玉堂(Zoeng1 Juk6tong4)'s preface:
	Zoeng1 Juk6tong4's preface
    原夫五方土性毗陰毗陽，剛柔異致。生其間者，嗜欲語言因之各別。此必然之理也。夫不通語言，情何由達，不識文字，言何由通。自來中外通商，彼此無不達之隱，必有人焉。爲之音釋文字，以通語言亦必然之勢也。或曰，通商不始於國朝，何前代無翻譯成書，是又不然。稽之《禮經·王制》所載，象寄狄鞮之職，雖有明文，然猶但指其人，而言未嘗著爲成書也。至《龍威秘書》所紀，外國方言文字詭譎離奇，不一而足。其見之說部如是，則當時之漸有成書可知矣。我粵自開關招徠外國商人，分部最多，歷史亦久而語言之通，以英國爲準。前此非無《英語撮要》等書，但擇焉不精，語焉不詳，差之毫釐，謬以千里。凡有志講求者，每苦無善本可守，至遲之久而唐子景星釋音書始出。唐子生長鐵城，賦性靈敏，少游鏡澳從師習英國語言文字，因留心時務立志輯成一書以便通商之稽考。但分門別類，卷帙浩繁，一時未能卒業迨壯游閩浙，見四方習英語者，謬不勝指而執業請講解者戶限為穿。唐子厭其煩而憐其誤也。於是決志取前未竟之書，急續成之。凡閱二年而脫稿。標題曰《華英音釋》，今將付剞劂，抱卷質余。余捧檄九龍，濫竽十載，地鄰香港，一葦可航，時有諸國使官頻來求書索畫者，得以晤誤於語言之間。聽聞已久頗知其梗概，然無書稽考，尚多未得其詳。今細讀唐子所輯華英音釋，分門別類，訂謬指訛，莫不條分縷析，至吹唇音，捲舌音，心為分，尤發前人所未發，誠為習英語之津梁也。余嘉乎唐子立意之厚，用力之苦，取法之善，均可不朽。因爲誌其緣起緣散，語於簡端而歸之，誇是書者辛加意焉，吾見應用之無窮矣。
	
	張玉堂 signed

The characteristics of people from different countries differ greatly therefore their desires are heterogeneous as well as their languages. Since meaningful communication cannot be conducted without languages and writing, there has to be a threat of mutual unintelligibility throughout the years of trading history between China and foreign countries and the mutual understanding of languages through an explanation of the pronunciation of the language is a must. Someone might argue that the trading was not started in this dynasty, how come there was no similar book of translation. This is not quite true. For example in The Book of Rites·Rule of King (《禮記·王制 [lai5 gei3 wong4 zai3]》). A kind of translator position named 象寄狄鞮 ([zoeng6 gei3 dik6 dai1], representing people from different countries and the translator who could interpret their languages) was recorded and as stated in The Secret Book of the Mighty Dragon(《龍威秘書(lung4 wai1 bei3 syu1)》), there are great varieties of foreign languages. Thus, there were indeed books that wrote about foreign languages. Since the commencement of trading in Caton, English constituted the largest proportion in terms of population, history, and language. Formerly, there indeed are books like The Essentials of English (《英語撮要 [jing1 jyu5 cyut3 jiu3]》), yet their selection of lexicon was not of finery and the language within them was unclear, hence a minor mistake would lead to an immense misunderstanding. And those who are willing to learn the language have found themselves unable to get their hand on a reliable textbook. It was true until Mr Tong Gingsing published his book that explained the pronunciation of the language. Mr Tong was born in 鐵城 ([tit3 sing4], the iron city, also known as 香山 [hoeng1 saan1], roughly today’s Zhongshan and Zhuhai) and gifted with an agile mind. He was once lived in Macau and studied the English language there and decided to compose a volume of books in this language for the reference of commercials as he was keen on social affairs. Since the books are large in volume and categorizations, he was not able to finish it immediately before he went to have a Grand Tour around Hokkien and Zhejiang. On his travel, he witnessed many mistakes demonstrated by a wide range of English learners and his guidance was urgently needed. Mr Tong was annoyed by the consultation but also sympathized with their difficulties, so he was dedicated to finishing the books as soon as possible. Two years later the manuscript was completed and named A Pronunciation Explanation of Chinese and English (《華英音釋(waa4 jing1 jam1 sik1)》). Now the books were ready to be printed and Mr Tong ask for my comments. 
	I served as a military general in Kowloon for about a decade where the post within the sailing range from Hong Kong. From time to time the foreign diplomats and officers who ask me for printings and calligraphies, found themselves hampered by the language. I could roughly decipher their meanings after all these years but most of them remain unintelligible for there was no book for reference. Now I read the A Pronunciation Explanation of Chinese and English edited by Mr Tong, the categorizations and corrections in this volume are all well-organized. Specifically, the labial sound, retroflex, etc. are recorded and taught for the first time, thus making this volume a great tool for learning the language. I praise his immortally ambitious intention, industrious efforts, and effective methodologies. In short, I respectively believe that this treatise will be of limitless applications.

吳湘(Ng4 Soeng1)’s Preface:

	吳湘's preface
         今使越裳獻雉，西旅貢獒，操其土音而來者，旋沐夫王化而去。與我内地民人初無交共，語言文字固不必相通也。若乃中外一家，華英方互相貿易，則語音不同弗能達主客之情，書契互異何以核名物之數。唐子景星苦心考究著華英音釋一編，條分縷述於發言成聲，因聲成字之，原委疏通而證明之。俾上智之士一見了然，中材者流諦觀自得此何如之，留心世務者耶。吾知體國家柔遠之心，在此編廣，聖世同文之治者亦即此編也。行見萬里流傳， 不脛而走，其利益於人者，豈僅屬貿易一端。
	
吳湘 signed

	Nowadays foreigners came with their indigenous dialects and went back to their countries with the blessings of the empire. They originally had no connection with us, and the languages are not mutually intelligible. If the Chinese and foreign countries were to become a family and trading between Chinese and British was to preserve, the relationship of host and customer could not be conveyed with language unintelligibility, and the numbers of trading could not be revised without understanding writing scripts. Mr Tong Gingsing has done a lot of research and composed a volume called A Pronunciation Explanation of Chinese and English with detailed categorizations and guidance on pronunciations and explanatory knowledge. It was to an extent that those who are smart could understand it in no time and also suitable for those who were not and want to know about current affairs. I acknowledged my country’s care for foreign countries and the willingness to establish an ideal society where language is unified is manifested and published through this volume. I could see it widely used and spreading with benefits beyond trading.  

On Cit3zi6 (切字, also known as Fanqie)
	切字論
       外國字母共有二十六其中響音者陸，啞音者二十。而響音較啞音為尤重，所書所言若無響音不獨不成字，且不成音。彼啞音特助響音以成音耳。字母只有二十六而千變萬化皆從此出。其所謂字母者乃即字瓣也。漢字只有八瓣而外國字竟有二十六瓣，似漢之文字比之外國文字更易明晰。惟是漢文字瓣乃無音相合而成字，而外國字瓣本身有一定之音，因其音乃相合而成字，故中國言語之中多有音而無字，惟外國字與音相連，有音必有字，聼一音可以一字相傳。其間或有其字而該字無解法者，亦有之切音之法肇自西域。漢人師承西域故切法中國與外國彼此均同一樣，漢文八瓣變化無窮與外國文字二十六瓣變化無窮其理本一。所分別者，漢文有許多奧渺之字見之不獨不解其字義而亦不識其字何音；而外國多有奧渺之字，學者雖不識其解而亦能知其音。故以外國文字音漢文猶易；而以漢文音外國文字較難，兹因以漢字音，外國字多有其音而無其字，不得不擇其最相近音之字傍加一口倂將各字編列，一定切法俾觀者易於晰覽，則因音考字，因字考義，思過半矣。

	Among the 26 letters of foreign language, there are 6 loud sounds (響音[hoeng2 jam1], presumably vowels) and 20 muted sounds (啞音[aa2 jam1], presumably consonants). And loud sounds are of greater value than muted sounds. Without loud sounds, all writings and speaking wound make no sense. Thus, a sound was composed by loud sounds with the help of muted sound, and hence the millions of varieties that come from the 26 letters. And the so-called letters are just the strokes, yet there are only 8 strokes in Chinese while there were 26 in terms of foreign languages. It seems that the words of the Chinese are clearer than those of foreigners’. However, there are no connections between the stokes and the pronunciation of Chinese while the letters of the foreign country bear a certain sound themselves, the words are thus come from the combination of different sounds. So, while in the Chinese language, somethings there are no words for a sound, in foreign language sounds are connected with words. Therefore, if there is a sound, there has to be a word and the word could be transmitted with sound. Sometimes some words could not be deciphered, there is also the fanqie method that came from the west which was learnt by Chinese people from western people. Therefore, the millions of variations from the 8 strokes of Chinese characters should be similar to the 26 letters of the foreign language. The difference is that some Chinese words could not be understood as well as be pronounced, yet while there would be also some foreign words that could not be deciphered, they could still be pronounced. Thus, it would be much easier to render the pronunciation of Chinese words by foreign letters than using Chinese words to record the sounds of foreign words. This is because some sounds of the foreign language do not have the corresponding Chinese words if this way of phonetic marking is to be used. So the only way out is to place a “口” near a word with the closest pronunciation to represent the sound. The method is adopted for readers’ convenience because it would be much easier for readers to study the meaning of words with their sound and forms.

On Pronunciation 
	讀法
       大凡讀書無論中外皆同一理，若讀者不留意於交字，只見字讀字，當住而不住，不當住而住之，不但傍人不識其所云，即自己亦不曉其所讀也。況中外文字相去甚遠，有一漢字而外國文字繙出數字，而亦有一外國文字譯出漢文數字者，尤宜詳審。
       今書中多有漢文一二字以漢文一二字而以漢文音英語竟有譯出十餘字之多。若不設法分別其話，定有顛倒其話，顛倒即人不知喝所謂也。譬如漢文一字國外文字有以三字讀者，若讀了上兩字畧住即將下一字牽搭下句而讀。上下語氣隔斷不相貫注則音韻不諧，人即不解為何音。善讀者使上下三字一氣呵成，纍纍如貫珠則音韻出而文義顯矣。此亦如漢人讀書，當明句讀不可有歇後語也。故擬將該句之傍畫一直綫，其應相連之處便相連，其應分斷之處即分斷。俾讀者則分斷讀之音自正矣。
      4 又該話之中多有外國字音只可以音達音，不可以字達音者，今擬將該字傍加一點。凡遇有點之字只可將該字出口音畧畧說之，不可將該字全字讀出聲，雖出聲亦無大碍，但説到底不如不出聲為尤妙尤正也。
      5 又外國每有一字係咬舌尖而說者，而中國字無此等字音，現擇其最近音之字傍加三角。凡遇此等字樣當說該字時將舌尖伸出兩齒閒然後説起字便得正音矣。此等字樣最難學曉，雖不曉亦無差幾何，但不若再加研究更可精於斯語也。
      6 又話中間有一字係傍有兩企者，應將該字輕咬下唇而說，如花輝非科等字是也。
      7 又外國説話之中往往有一字係捲舌而説者如北方人說兒字，是捲舌音。今將該字傍加一圈。凡遇此等字樣將舌尖捲頂上腭即說其字便可得其正焉。此等字樣捲舌而言與不捲舌而言，其音雖屬所差無幾但以外國文字論之即所差甚遠甚大也。譬如一飯字，英語說孻士，孻字應捲舌。而説人身上之虱，英語說孻士，此孻字應照正字讀毋庸捲舌而説。假説將食飯之孻字不捲舌而說，豈不是食飯兩字變了食虱兩字耶。且此孻字原是正舌音，今從捲舌頂上腭而説，猶如來利厘孻鏬獵洛黎厯列等十字本音係將舌尖頂上齒背而說。若十字中在加圈即將舌尖捲上一度而説，其中畧為分別耳，此等音更宜考清。
       學者細研以上幾欵，果能分別便與外國人所説無異也。
       再書中所音多字本係平聲，而又圈平聲者咩嘩味等字，均按省城土音讀正，與加口之字不同也。
       釋音之道古人所難，而以唐音釋英音尤難。兹所刊之書其字甚繁，其音難叶。字音之訛自知不免，竊願與一二善學話者潛心而共商之爾。

	Summary by the author:
	The differences between Chinese and English and guidance on the pronunciation of English.
1.	Reading the words one by one without paying attention to the stress and syllables would lead to confusion.
2.	Sometimes Chinese has no exact corresponding English words.
3.	Some English words would need quite a lot of Chinese words to represent. Solution: a line was drawn beside the Chinese words meaning that they should be read out consecutively.
4.	Several sounds of English words have no exact equivalent Chinese words. Solution: a point was put beside the Chinese words and readers should only use the onset of the Chinese pronunciation of such words.
5.	There are dental fricative sounds in English that should be pronounced with the teeth biting the tip of the tongue. Solution: a triangle was placed beside the Chinese words with the closest sound and learners should put their tongues between the teeth to correctly pronounce this sound.
6.	The marking of labiodental fricative is two vertical strokes beside the word.
7.	There is retroflex in the pronunciation in English like how people from northern China would speak “-er”. This kind of sound was marked by a circle beside the word and learners use their tongue to touch their palatal while pronouncing this sound. 
8.	A story about mistaking rice and lice.
9.	Most words in this book are of levelling sound and pronounced according to the Canton dialect.
